 1 And now I, Nephi, make an end of my prophesying unto you, my
beloved brethren.  And I cannot write but a few things, which I
know must surely come to pass; neither can I write but a few of
the words of my brother Jacob.
 2 Wherefore, the things which I have written sufficeth me, save
it be a few words which I must speak concerning the doctrine of
Christ; wherefore, I shall speak unto you plainly, according to
the plainness of my prophesying.
 3 For my soul delighteth in plainness; for after this manner
doth the Lord God work among the children of men.  For the Lord
God giveth light unto the understanding; for he speaketh unto men
according to their language, unto their understanding.
 4 Wherefore, I would that ye should remember that I have spoken
unto you concerning that prophet which the Lord showed unto me,
that should baptize the Lamb of God, which should take away the
sins of the world.
 5 And now, if the Lamb of God, he being holy, should have need
to be baptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then, how
much more need have we, being unholy, to be baptized, yea, even
by water!
 6 And now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, wherein the
Lamb of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by
water?
 7 Know ye not that he was holy?  But notwithstanding he being
holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the
flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto
the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his
commandments.
 8 Wherefore, after he was baptized with water the Holy Ghost
descended upon him in the form of a dove.
 9 And again, it showeth unto the children of men the
straightness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by
which they should enter, he having set the example before them.
 10 And he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me. 
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall
be willing to keep the commandments of the Father?
 11 And the Father said: Repent ye, repent ye, and be baptized in
the name of my Beloved Son.
 12 And also, the voice of the Son came unto me, saying: He that
is baptized in my name, to him will the Father give the Holy
Ghost, like unto me; wherefore, follow me, and do the things
which ye have seen me do.
 13 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I know that if ye shall
follow the Son, with full purpose of heart, acting no hypocrisy
and no deception before God, but with real intent, repenting of
your sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are willing to take
upon you the name of Christ, by baptism -- yea, by following your
Lord and your Savior down into the water, according to his word,
behold, then shall ye receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then cometh
the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and then can ye speak
with the tongue of angels, and shout praises unto the Holy One of
Israel.
 14 But, behold, my beloved brethren, thus came the voice of the
Son unto me, saying: After ye have repented of your sins, and
witnessed unto the Father that ye are willing to keep my
commandments, by the baptism of water, and have received the
baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost, and can speak with a new
tongue, yea, even with the tongue of angels, and after this
should deny me, it would have been better for you that ye had not
known me.
 15 And I heard a voice from the Father, saying: Yea, the words
of my Beloved are true and faithful.  He that endureth to the
end, the same shall be saved.
 16 And now, my beloved brethren, I know by this that unless a
man shall endure to the end, in following the example of the Son
of the living God, he cannot be saved.
 17 Wherefore, do the things which I have told you I have seen
that your Lord and your Redeemer should do; for, for this cause
have they been shown unto me, that ye might know the gate by
which ye should enter.  For the gate by which ye should enter is
repentance and baptism by water; and then cometh a remission of
your sins by fire and by the Holy Ghost.
 18 And then are ye in this strait and narrow path which leads to
eternal life; yea, ye have entered in by the gate; ye have done
according to the commandments of the Father and the Son; and ye
have received the Holy Ghost, which witnesses of the Father and
the Son, unto the fulfilling of the promise which he hath made,
that if ye entered in by the way ye should receive.
 19 And now, my beloved brethren, after ye have gotten into this
strait and narrow path, I would ask if all is done?  Behold, I
say unto you, Nay; for ye have not come thus far save it were by
the word of Christ with unshaken faith in him, relying wholly
upon the merits of him who is mighty to save.
 20 Wherefore, ye must press forward with a steadfastness in
Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love of God
and of all men.  Wherefore, if ye shall press forward, feasting
upon the word of Christ, and endure to the end, behold, thus
saith the Father: Ye shall have eternal life.
 21 And now, behold, my beloved brethren, this is the way; and
there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man
can be saved in the kingdom of God.  And now, behold, this is the
doctrine of Christ, and the only and true doctrine of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, which is one God, without
end.  Amen.
 1 And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I suppose that ye ponder
somewhat in your hearts concerning that which ye should do after
ye have entered in by the way.  But, behold, why do ye ponder
these things in your hearts?
 2 Do ye not remember that I said unto you that after ye had
received the Holy Ghost ye could speak with the tongue of angels?
And now, how could ye speak with the tongue of angels save it
were by the Holy Ghost?
 3 Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they
speak the words of Christ.  Wherefore, I said unto you, feast
upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will
tell you all things what ye should do.
 4 Wherefore, now after I have spoken these words, if ye cannot
understand them it will be because ye ask not, neither do ye
knock; wherefore, ye are not brought into the light, but must
perish in the dark.
 5 For behold, again I say unto you that if ye will enter in by
the way, and receive the Holy Ghost, it will show unto you all
things what ye should do.
 6 Behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and there will be no
more doctrine given until after he shall manifest himself unto
you in the flesh.  And when he shall manifest himself unto you in
the flesh, the things which he shall say unto you shall ye
observe to do.
 7 And now I, Nephi, cannot say more; the Spirit stoppeth mine
utterance, and I am left to mourn because of the unbelief, and
the wickedness, and the ignorance, and the stiffneckedness of
men; for they will not search knowledge, nor understand great
knowledge, when it is given unto them in plainness, even as plain
as word can be.
 8 And now, my beloved brethren, I perceive that ye ponder still
in your hearts; and it grieveth me that I must speak concerning
this thing.  For if ye would hearken unto the Spirit which
teacheth a man to pray ye would know that ye must pray; for the
evil spirit teacheth not a man to pray, but teacheth him that he
must not pray.
 9 But behold, I say unto you that ye must pray always, and not
faint; that ye must not perform any thing unto the Lord save in
the first place ye shall pray unto the Father in the name of
Christ, that he will consecrate thy performance unto thee, that
thy performance may be for the welfare of thy soul.
 1 And now I, Nephi, cannot write all the things which were
taught among my people; neither am I mighty in writing, like unto
speaking; for when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost
the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the
children of men.
 2 But behold, there are many that harden their hearts against
the Holy Spirit, that it hath no place in them; wherefore, they
cast many things away which are written and esteem them as things
of naught.
 3 But I, Nephi, have written what I have written, and I esteem
it as of great worth, and especially unto my people.  For I pray
continually for them by day, and mine eyes water my pillow by
night, because of them; and I cry unto my God in faith, and I
know that he will hear my cry.
 4 And I know that the Lord God will consecrate my prayers for
the gain of my people.  And the words which I have written in
weakness will be made strong unto them; for it persuadeth them to
do good; it maketh known unto them of their fathers; and it
speaketh of Jesus, and persuadeth them to believe in him, and to
endure to the end, which is life eternal.
 5 And it speaketh harshly against sin, according to the
plainness of the truth; wherefore, no man will be angry at the
words which I have written save he shall be of the spirit of the
devil.
 6 I glory in plainness; I glory in truth; I glory in my Jesus,
for he hath redeemed my soul from hell.
 7 I have charity for my people, and great faith in Christ that I
shall meet many souls spotless at his judgment-seat.
 8 I have charity for the Jew -- I say Jew, because I mean them
from whence I came.
 9 I also have charity for the Gentiles.  But behold, for none of
these can I hope except they shall be reconciled unto Christ, and
enter into the narrow gate, and walk in the strait path which
leads to life, and continue in the path until the end of the day
of probation.
 10 And now, my beloved brethren, and also Jew, and all ye ends
of the earth, hearken unto these words and believe in Christ; and
if ye believe not in these words believe in Christ.  And if ye
shall believe in Christ ye will believe in these words, for they
are the words of Christ, and he hath given them unto me; and they
teach all men that they should do good.
 11 And if they are not the words of Christ, judge ye -- for Christ
will show unto you, with power and great glory, that they are his
words, at the last day; and you and I shall stand face to face
before his bar; and ye shall know that I have been commanded of
him to write these things, notwithstanding my weakness.
 12 And I pray the Father in the name of Christ that many of us,
if not all, may be saved in his kingdom at that great and last
day.
 13 And now, my beloved brethren, all those who are of the house
of Israel, and all ye ends of the earth, I speak unto you as the
voice of one crying from the dust: Farewell until that great day
shall come.
 14 And you that will not partake of the goodness of God, and
respect the words of the Jews, and also my words, and the words
which shall proceed forth out of the mouth of the Lamb of God,
behold, I bid you an everlasting farewell, for these words shall
condemn you at the last day.
 15 For what I seal on earth, shall be brought against you at the
judgment bar; for thus hath the Lord commanded me, and I must
obey.  Amen.
Jacob
THE BOOK OF JACOB
THE BROTHER OF NEPHI
The words of his preaching unto his brethren.  He confoundeth a
man who seeketh to overthrow the doctrine of Christ.  A few words
concerning the history of the people of Nephi.
 1 For behold, it came to pass that fifty and five years had
passed away from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem; wherefore,
Nephi gave me, Jacob, a commandment concerning the small plates,
upon which these things are engraven.
 2 And he gave me, Jacob, a commandment that I should write upon
these plates a few of the things which I consider to be most
precious; that I should not touch, save it were lightly,
concerning the history of this people which are called the people
of Nephi.
 3 For he said that the history of his people should be engraven
upon his other plates, and that I should preserve these plates
and hand them down unto my seed, from generation to generation.
 4 And if there were preaching which was sacred, or revelation
which was great, or prophesying, that I should engraven the heads
of them upon these plates, and touch upon them as much as it were
possible, for Christ's sake, and for the sake of our people.
 5 For because of faith and great anxiety, it truly had been made
manifest unto us concerning our people, what things should happen
unto them.
 6 And we also had many revelations, and the spirit of much
prophecy; wherefore, we knew of Christ and his kingdom, which
should come.
 7 Wherefore we labored diligently among our people, that we
might persuade them to come unto Christ, and partake of the
goodness of God, that they might enter into his rest, lest by any
means he should swear in his wrath they should not enter in, as
in the provocation in the days of temptation while the children
of Israel were in the wilderness.
 8 Wherefore, we would to God that we could persuade all men not
to rebel against God, to provoke him to anger, but that all men
would believe in Christ, and view his death, and suffer his cross
and bear the shame of the world; wherefore, I, Jacob, take it
upon me to fulfil the commandment of my brother Nephi.
 9 Now Nephi began to be old, and he saw that he must soon die;
wherefore, he anointed a man to be a king and a ruler over his
people now, according to the reigns of the kings.
 10 The people having loved Nephi exceedingly, he having been a
great protector for them, having wielded the sword of Laban in
their defence, and having labored in all his days for their
welfare -- 
 11 Wherefore, the people were desirous to retain in remembrance
his name.  And whoso should reign in his stead were called by the
people, second Nephi, third Nephi, and so forth, according to the
reigns of the kings; and thus they were called by the people, let
them be of whatever name they would.
 12 And it came to pass that Nephi died.
 13 Now the people which were not Lamanites were Nephites;
nevertheless, they were called Nephites, Jacobites, Josephites,
Zoramites, Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites.
 14 But I, Jacob, shall not hereafter distinguish them by these
names, but I shall call them Lamanites that seek to destroy the
people of Nephi, and those who are friendly to Nephi I shall call
Nephites, or the people of Nephi, according to the reigns of the
kings.
 15 And now it came to pass that the people of Nephi, under the
reign of the second king, began to grow hard in their hearts, and
indulge themselves somewhat in wicked practices, such as like
unto David of old desiring many wives and concubines, and also
Solomon, his son.
 16 Yea, and they also began to search much gold and silver, and
began to be lifted up somewhat in pride.
 17 Wherefore I, Jacob, gave unto them these words as I taught
them in the temple, having first obtained mine errand from the
Lord.
 18 For I, Jacob, and my brother Joseph had been consecrated
priests and teachers of this people, by the hand of Nephi.
 19 And we did magnify our office unto the Lord, taking upon us
the responsibility, answering the sins of the people upon our own
heads if we did not teach them the word of God with all
diligence; wherefore, by laboring with our might their blood
might not come upon our garments; otherwise their blood would
come upon our garments, and we would not be found spotless at the
last day.
 1 The words which Jacob, the brother of Nephi, spake unto the
people of Nephi, after the death of Nephi:
 2 Now, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, according to the
responsibility which I am under to God, to magnify mine office
with soberness, and that I might rid my garments of your sins, I
come up into the temple this day that I might declare unto you
the word of God.
 3 And ye yourselves know that I have hitherto been diligent in
the office of my calling; but I this day am weighed down with
much more desire and anxiety for the welfare of your souls than I
have hitherto been.
 4 For behold, as yet, ye have been obedient unto the word of the
Lord, which I have given unto you.
 5 But behold, hearken ye unto me, and know that by the help of
the all-powerful Creator of heaven and earth I can tell you
concerning your thoughts, how that ye are beginning to labor in
sin, which sin appeareth very abominable unto me, yea, and
abominable unto God.
 6 Yea, it grieveth my soul and causeth me to shrink with shame
before the presence of my Maker, that I must testify unto you
concerning the wickedness of your hearts.
 7 And also it grieveth me that I must use so much boldness of
speech concerning you, before your wives and your children, many
of whose feelings are exceedingly tender and chaste and delicate
before God, which thing is pleasing unto God;
 8 And it supposeth me that they have come up hither to hear the
pleasing word of God, yea, the word which healeth the wounded
soul.
 9 Wherefore, it burdeneth my soul that I should be constrained,
because of the strict commandment which I have received from God,
to admonish you according to your crimes, to enlarge the wounds
of those who are already wounded, instead of consoling and
healing their wounds; and those who have not been wounded,
instead of feasting upon the pleasing word of God have daggers
placed to pierce their souls and wound their delicate minds.
 10 But, notwithstanding the greatness of the task, I must do
according to the strict commands of God, and tell you concerning
your wickedness and abominations, in the presence of the pure in
heart, and the broken heart, and under the glance of the piercing
eye of the Almighty God.
 11 Wherefore, I must tell you the truth according to the
plainness of the word of God.  For behold, as I inquired of the
Lord, thus came the word unto me, saying:  Jacob, get thou up
into the temple on the morrow, and declare the word which I shall
give thee unto this people.
 12 And now behold, my brethren, this is the word which I declare
unto you, that many of you have begun to search for gold, and for
silver, and for all manner of precious ores, in the which this
land, which is a land of promise unto you and to your seed, doth
abound most plentifully.
 13 And the hand of providence hath smiled upon you most
pleasingly, that you have obtained many riches; and because some
of you have obtained more abundantly than that of your brethren
ye are lifted up in the pride of your hearts, and wear stiff
necks and high heads because of the costliness of your apparel,
and persecute your brethren because ye suppose that ye are better
than they.
 14 And now, my brethren, do ye suppose that God justifieth you
in this thing?  Behold, I say unto you, Nay.  But he condemneth
you, and if ye persist in these things his judgments must
speedily come unto you.
 15 O that he would show you that he can pierce you, and with one
glance of his eye he can smite you to the dust!
 16 O that he would rid you from this iniquity and abomination. 
And, O that ye would listen unto the word of his commands, and
let not this pride of your hearts destroy your souls!
 17 Think of your brethren like unto yourselves, and be familiar
with all and free with your substance, that they may be rich like
unto you.
 18 But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of
God.
 19 And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain
riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to
do good -- to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to
liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the
afflicted.
 20 And now, my brethren, I have spoken unto you concerning
pride; and those of you which have afflicted your neighbor, and
persecuted him because ye were proud in your hearts, of the
things which God hath given you, what say ye of it?
 21 Do ye not suppose that such things are abominable unto him
who created all flesh?  And the one being is as precious in his
sight as the other.  And all flesh is of the dust; and for the
selfsame end hath he created them, that they should keep his
commandments and glorify him forever.
 22 And now I make an end of speaking unto you concerning this
pride.  And were it not that I must speak unto you concerning a
grosser crime, my heart would rejoice exceedingly because of you.
 23 But the word of God burdens me because of your grosser
crimes.  For behold, thus saith the Lord: This people begin to
wax in iniquity; they understand not the scriptures, for they
seek to excuse themselves in committing whoredoms, because of the
things which were written concerning David, and Solomon his son.
 24 Behold, David and Solomon truly had many wives and
concubines, which thing was abominable before me, saith the Lord.
 25 Wherefore, thus saith the Lord, I have led this people forth
out of the land of Jerusalem, by the power of mine arm, that I
might raise up unto me a righteous branch from the fruit of the
loins of Joseph.
 26 Wherefore, I the Lord God will not suffer that this people
shall do like unto them of old.
 27 Wherefore, my brethren, hear me, and hearken to the word of
the Lord: For there shall not any man among you have save it be
one wife; and concubines he shall have none;
 28 For I, the Lord God, delight in the chastity of women.  And
whoredoms are an abomination before me; thus saith the Lord of
Hosts.
 29 Wherefore, this people shall keep my commandments, saith the
Lord of Hosts, or cursed be the land for their sakes.
 30 For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise up seed unto
me, I will command my people; otherwise they shall hearken unto
these things.
 31 For behold, I, the Lord, have seen the sorrow, and heard the
mourning of the daughters of my people in the land of Jerusalem,
yea, and in all the lands of my people, because of the wickedness
and abominations of their husbands.
 32 And I will not suffer, saith the Lord of Hosts, that the
cries of the fair daughters of this people, which I have led out
of the land of Jerusalem, shall come up unto me against the men
of my people, saith the Lord of Hosts.
 33 For they shall not lead away captive the daughters of my
people because of their tenderness, save I shall visit them with
a sore curse, even unto destruction; for they shall not commit
whoredoms, like unto them of old, saith the Lord of Hosts.
 34 And now behold, my brethren, ye know that these commandments
were given to our father, Lehi; wherefore, ye have known them
before; and ye have come unto great condemnation; for ye have
done these things which ye ought not to have done.
 35 Behold, ye have done greater iniquities than the Lamanites,
our brethren.  Ye have broken the hearts of your tender wives,
and lost the confidence of your children, because of your bad
examples before them; and the sobbings of their hearts ascend up
to God against you.  And because of the strictness of the word of
God, which cometh down against you, many hearts died, pierced
with deep wounds.
