 1 Behold, it came to pass that I, Enos, knowing my father that
he was a just man -- for he taught me in his language, and also in
the nurture and admonition of the Lord -- and blessed be the name
of my God for it -- 
 2 And I will tell you of the wrestle which I had before God,
before I received a remission of my sins.
 3 Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forests; and the words
which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life,
and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart.
 4 And my soul hungered; and I kneeled down before my Maker, and
I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication for mine own
soul; and all the day long did I cry unto him; yea, and when the
night came I did still raise my voice high that it reached the
heavens.
 5 And there came a voice unto me, saying: Enos, thy sins are
forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed.
 6 And I, Enos, knew that God could not lie; wherefore, my guilt
was swept away.
 7 And I said: Lord, how is it done?
 8 And he said unto me: Because of thy faith in Christ, whom thou
hast never before heard nor seen.  And many years pass away
before he shall manifest himself in the flesh; wherefore, go to,
thy faith hath made thee whole.
 9 Now, it came to pass that when I had heard these words I began
to feel a desire for the welfare of my brethren, the Nephites;
wherefore, I did pour out my whole soul unto God for them.
 10 And while I was thus struggling in the spirit, behold, the
voice of the Lord came into my mind again, saying: I will visit
thy brethren according to their diligence in keeping my
commandments.  I have given unto them this land, and it is a holy
land; and I curse it not save it be for the cause of iniquity;
wherefore, I will visit thy brethren according as I have said;
and their transgressions will I bring down with sorrow upon their
own heads.
 11 And after I, Enos, had heard these words, my faith began to
be unshaken in the Lord; and I prayed unto him with many long
strugglings for my brethren, the Lamanites.
 12 And it came to pass that after I had prayed and labored with
all diligence, the Lord said unto me: I will grant unto thee
according to thy desires, because of thy faith.
 13 And now behold, this was the desire which I desired of
him -- that if it should so be, that my people, the Nephites,
should fall into transgression, and by any means be destroyed,
and the Lamanites should not be destroyed, that the Lord God
would preserve a record of my people, the Nephites; even if it so
be by the power of his holy arm, that it might be brought forth
at some future day unto the Lamanites, that, perhaps, they might
be brought unto salvation -- 
 14 For at the present our strugglings were vain in restoring
them to the true faith.  And they swore in their wrath that, if
it were possible, they would destroy our records and us, and also
all the traditions of our fathers.
 15 Wherefore, I knowing that the Lord God was able to preserve
our records, I cried unto him continually, for he had said unto
me: Whatsoever thing ye shall ask in faith, believing that ye
shall receive in the name of Christ, ye shall receive it.
 16 And I had faith, and I did cry unto God that he would
preserve the records; and he covenanted with me that he would
bring them forth unto the Lamanites in his own due time.
 17 And I, Enos, knew it would be according to the covenant which
he had made; wherefore my soul did rest.
 18 And the Lord said unto me: Thy fathers have also required of
me this thing; and it shall be done unto them according to their
faith; for their faith was like unto thine.
 19 And now it came to pass that I, Enos, went about among the
people of Nephi, prophesying of things to come, and testifying of
the things which I had heard and seen.
 20 And I bear record that the people of Nephi did seek
diligently to restore the Lamanites unto the true faith in God. 
But our labors were vain; their hatred was fixed, and they were
led by their evil nature that they became wild, and ferocious,
and a bloodthirsty people, full of idolatry and filthiness;
feeding upon beasts of prey; dwelling in tents, and wandering
about in the wilderness with a short skin girdle about their
loins and their heads shaven; and their skill was in the bow, and
in the cimeter, and the ax.  And many of them did eat nothing
save it was raw meat; and they were continually seeking to
destroy us.
 21 And it came to pass that the people of Nephi did till the
land, and raise all manner of grain, and of fruit, and flocks of
herds, and flocks of all manner of cattle of every kind, and
goats, and wild goats, and also many horses.
 22 And there were exceedingly many prophets among us.  And the
people were a stiffnecked people, hard to understand.
 23 And there was nothing save it was exceeding harshness,
preaching and prophesying of wars, and contentions, and
destructions, and continually reminding them of death, and the
duration of eternity, and the judgments and the power of God, and
all these things -- stirring them up continually to keep them in
the fear of the Lord.  I say there was nothing short of these
things, and exceedingly great plainness of speech, would keep
them from going down speedily to destruction.  And after this
manner do I write concerning them.
 24 And I saw wars between the Nephites and Lamanites in the
course of my days.
 25 And it came to pass that I began to be old, and an hundred
and seventy and nine years had passed away from the time that our
father Lehi left Jerusalem.
 26 And I saw that I must soon go down to my grave, having been
wrought upon by the power of God that I must preach and prophesy
unto this people, and declare the word according to the truth
which is in Christ.  And I have declared it in all my days, and
have rejoiced in it above that of the world.
 27 And I soon go to the place of my rest, which is with my
Redeemer; for I know that in him I shall rest.  And I rejoice in
the day when my mortal shall put on immortality, and shall stand
before him; then shall I see his face with pleasure, and he will
say unto me: Come unto me, ye blessed, there is a place prepared
for you in the mansions of my Father.  Amen.
THE BOOK OF JAROM
 1 Now behold, I, Jarom, write a few words according to the
commandment of my father, Enos, that our genealogy may be kept.
 2 And as these plates are small, and as these things are written
for the intent of the benefit of our brethren the Lamanites,
wherefore, it must needs be that I write a little; but I shall
not write the things of my prophesying, nor of my revelations. 
For what could I write more than my fathers have written?  For
have not they revealed the plan of salvation?  I say unto you,
Yea; and this sufficeth me.
 3 Behold, it is expedient that much should be done among this
people, because of the hardness of their hearts, and the deafness
of their ears, and the blindness of their minds, and the
stiffness of their necks; nevertheless, God is exceedingly
merciful unto them, and has not as yet swept them off from the
face of the land.
 4 And there are many among us who have many revelations, for
they are not all stiffnecked.  And as many as are not stiffnecked
and have faith, have communion with the Holy Spirit, which maketh
manifest unto the children of men, according to their faith.
 5 And now, behold, two hundred years had passed away, and the
people of Nephi had waxed strong in the land.  They observed to
keep the law of Moses and the sabbath day holy unto the Lord. 
And they profaned not; neither did they blaspheme.  And the laws
of the land were exceedingly strict.
 6 And they were scattered upon much of the face of the land, and
the Lamanites also.  And they were exceedingly more numerous than
were they of the Nephites; and they loved murder and would drink
the blood of beasts.
 7 And it came to pass that they came many times against us, the
Nephites, to battle.  But our kings and our leaders were mighty
men in the faith of the Lord; and they taught the people the ways
of the Lord; wherefore, we withstood the Lamanites and swept them
away out of our lands, and began to fortify our cities, or
whatsoever place of our inheritance.
 8 And we multiplied exceedingly, and spread upon the face of the
land, and became exceedingly rich in gold, and in silver, and in
precious things, and in fine workmanship of wood, in buildings,
and in machinery, and also in iron and copper, and brass and
steel, making all manner of tools of every kind to till the
ground, and weapons of war -- yea, the sharp pointed arrow, and the
quiver, and the dart, and the javelin, and all preparations for
war.
 9 And thus being prepared to meet the Lamanites, they did not
prosper against us.  But the word of the Lord was verified, which
he spake unto our fathers, saying that: Inasmuch as ye will keep
my commandments ye shall prosper in the land.
 10 And it came to pass that the prophets of the Lord did
threaten the people of Nephi, according to the word of God, that
if they did not keep the commandments, but should fall into
transgression, they should be destroyed from off the face of the
land.
 11 Wherefore, the prophets, and the priests, and the teachers,
did labor diligently, exhorting with all long-suffering the
people to diligence; teaching the law of Moses, and the intent
for which it was given; persuading them to look forward unto the
Messiah, and believe in him to come as though he already was. 
And after this manner did they teach them.
 12 And it came to pass that by so doing they kept them from
being destroyed upon the face of the land; for they did prick
their hearts with the word, continually stirring them up unto
repentance.
 13 And it came to pass that two hundred and thirty and eight
years had passed away -- after the manner of wars, and contentions,
and dissensions, for the space of much of the time.
 14 And I, Jarom, do not write more, for the plates are small. 
But behold, my brethren, ye can go to the other plates of Nephi;
for behold, upon them the records of our wars are engraven,
according to the writings of the kings, or those which they
caused to be written.
 15 And I deliver these plates into the hands of my son Omni,
that they may be kept according to the commandments of my
fathers.
THE BOOK OF OMNI
 1 Behold, it came to pass that I, Omni, being commanded by my
father, Jarom, that I should write somewhat upon these plates, to
preserve our genealogy -- 
 2 Wherefore, in my days, I would that ye should know that I
fought much with the sword to preserve my people, the Nephites,
from falling into the hands of their enemies, the Lamanites.  But
behold, I of myself am a wicked man, and I have not kept the
statutes and the commandments of the Lord as I ought to have
done.
 3 And it came to pass that two hundred and seventy and six years
had passed away, and we had many seasons of peace; and we had
many seasons of serious war and bloodshed.  Yea, and in fine, two
hundred and eighty and two years had passed away, and I had kept
these plates according to the commandments of my fathers; and I
conferred them upon my son Amaron.  And I make an end.
 4 And now I, Amaron, write the things whatsoever I write, which
are few, in the book of my father.
 5 Behold, it came to pass that three hundred and twenty years
had passed away, and the more wicked part of the Nephites were
destroyed.
 6 For the Lord would not suffer, after he had led them out of
the land of Jerusalem and kept and preserved them from falling
into the hands of their enemies, yea, he would not suffer that
the words should not be verified, which he spake unto our
fathers, saying that: Inasmuch as ye will not keep my
commandments ye shall not prosper in the land.
 7 Wherefore, the Lord did visit them in great judgment;
nevertheless, he did spare the righteous that they should not
perish, but did deliver them out of the hands of their enemies.
 8 And it came to pass that I did deliver the plates unto my
brother Chemish.
 9 Now I, Chemish, write what few things I write, in the same
book with my brother; for behold, I saw the last which he wrote,
that he wrote it with his own hand; and he wrote it in the day
that he delivered them unto me.  And after this manner we keep
the records, for it is according to the commandments of our
fathers.  And I make an end.
 10 Behold, I, Abinadom, am the son of Chemish.  Behold, it came
to pass that I saw much war and contention between my people, the
Nephites, and the Lamanites; and I, with my own sword, have taken
the lives of many of the Lamanites in the defence of my brethren.
 11 And behold, the record of this people is engraven upon plates
which is had by the kings, according to the generations; and I
know of no revelation save that which has been written, neither
prophecy; wherefore, that which is sufficient is written.  And I
make an end.
 12 Behold, I am Amaleki, the son of Abinadom.  Behold, I will
speak unto you somewhat concerning Mosiah, who was made king over
the land of Zarahemla; for behold, he being warned of the Lord
that he should flee out of the land of Nephi, and as many as
would hearken unto the voice of the Lord should also depart out
of the land with him, into the wilderness -- 
 13 And it came to pass that he did according as the Lord had
commanded him.  And they departed out of the land into the
wilderness, as many as would hearken unto the voice of the Lord;
and they were led by many preachings and prophesyings.  And they
were admonished continually by the word of God; and they were led
by the power of his arm, through the wilderness, until they came
down into the land which is called the land of Zarahemla.
 14 And they discovered a people, who were called the people of
Zarahemla.  Now, there was great rejoicing among the people of
Zarahemla; and also Zarahemla did rejoice exceedingly, because
the Lord had sent the people of Mosiah with the plates of brass
which contained the record of the Jews.
 15 Behold, it came to pass that Mosiah discovered that the
people of Zarahemla came out from Jerusalem at the time that
Zedekiah, king of Judah, was carried away captive into Babylon.
 16 And they journeyed in the wilderness, and were brought by the
hand of the Lord across the great waters, into the land where
Mosiah discovered them; and they had dwelt there from that time
forth.
 17 And at the time that Mosiah discovered them, they had become
exceedingly numerous.  Nevertheless, they had had many wars and
serious contentions, and had fallen by the sword from time to
time; and their language had become corrupted; and they had
brought no records with them; and they denied the being of their
Creator; and Mosiah, nor the people of Mosiah, could understand
them.
 18 But it came to pass that Mosiah caused that they should be
taught in his language.  And it came to pass that after they were
taught in the language of Mosiah, Zarahemla gave a genealogy of
his fathers, according to his memory; and they are written, but
not in these plates.
 19 And it came to pass that the people of Zarahemla, and of
Mosiah, did unite together; and Mosiah was appointed to be their
king.
 20 And it came to pass in the days of Mosiah, there was a large
stone brought unto him with engravings on it; and he did
interpret the engravings by the gift and power of God.
 21 And they gave an account of one Coriantumr, and the slain of
his people.  And Coriantumr was discovered by the people of
Zarahemla; and he dwelt with them for the space of nine moons.
 22 It also spake a few words concerning his fathers.  And his
first parents came out from the tower, at the time the Lord
confounded the language of the people; and the severity of the
Lord fell upon them according to his judgments, which are just;
and their bones lay scattered in the land northward.
 23 Behold, I, Amaleki, was born in the days of Mosiah; and I
have lived to see his death; and Benjamin, his son, reigneth in
his stead.
 24 And behold, I have seen, in the days of king Benjamin, a
serious war and much bloodshed between the Nephites and the
Lamanites.  But behold, the Nephites did obtain much advantage
over them; yea, insomuch that king Benjamin did drive them out of
the land of Zarahemla.
 25 And it came to pass that I began to be old; and, having no
seed, and knowing king Benjamin to be a just man before the Lord,
wherefore, I shall deliver up these plates unto him, exhorting
all men to come unto God, the Holy One of Israel, and believe in
prophesying, and in revelations, and in the ministering of
angels, and in the gift of speaking with tongues, and in the gift
of interpreting languages, and in all things which are good; for
there is nothing which is good save it comes from the Lord; and
that which is evil cometh from the devil.
 26 And now, my beloved brethren, I would that ye should come
unto Christ, who is the Holy One of Israel, and partake of his
salvation, and the power of his redemption.  Yea, come unto him,
and offer your whole souls as an offering unto him, and continue
in fasting and praying, and endure to the end; and as the Lord
liveth ye will be saved.
 27 And now I would speak somewhat concerning a certain number
who went up into the wilderness to return to the land of Nephi;
for there was a large number who were desirous to possess the
land of their inheritance.
 28 Wherefore, they went up into the wilderness.  And their
leader being a strong and mighty man, and a stiffnecked man,
wherefore he caused a contention among them; and they were all
slain, save fifty, in the wilderness, and they returned again to
the land of Zarahemla.
 29 And it came to pass that they also took others to a
considerable number, and took their journey again into the
wilderness.
 30 And I, Amaleki, had a brother, who also went with them; and I
have not since known concerning them.  And I am about to lie down
in my grave; and these plates are full.  And I make an end of my
speaking.
THE WORDS OF MORMON
 1 And now I, Mormon, being about to deliver up the record which
I have been making into the hands of my son Moroni, behold I have
witnessed almost all the destruction of my people, the Nephites.
 2 And it is many hundred years after the coming of Christ that I
deliver these records into the hands of my son; and it supposeth
me that he will witness the entire destruction of my people.  But
may God grant that he may survive them, that he may write
somewhat concerning them, and somewhat concerning Christ, that
perhaps some day it may profit them.
 3 And now, I speak somewhat concerning that which I have
written; for after I had made an abridgment from the plates of
Nephi, down to the reign of this king Benjamin, of whom Amaleki
spake, I searched among the records which had been delivered into
my hands, and I found these plates, which contained this small
account of the prophets, from Jacob down to the reign of this
king Benjamin, and also many of the words of Nephi.
 4 And the things which are upon these plates pleasing me,
because of the prophecies of the coming of Christ; and my fathers
knowing that many of them have been fulfilled; yea, and I also
know that as many things as have been prophesied concerning us
down to this day have been fulfilled, and as many as go beyond
this day must surely come to pass -- 
 5 Wherefore, I chose these things, to finish my record upon
them, which remainder of my record I shall take from the plates
of Nephi; and I cannot write the hundredth part of the things of
my people.
 6 But behold, I shall take these plates, which contain these
prophesyings and revelations, and put them with the remainder of
my record, for they are choice unto me; and I know they will be
choice unto my brethren.
 7 And I do this for a wise purpose; for thus it whispereth me,
according to the workings of the Spirit of the Lord which is in
me.  And now, I do not know all things; but the Lord knoweth all
things which are to come; wherefore, he worketh in me to do
according to his will.
 8 And my prayer to God is concerning my brethren, that they may
once again come to the knowledge of God, yea, the redemption of
Christ; that they may once again be a delightsome people.
 9 And now I, Mormon, proceed to finish out my record, which I
take from the plates of Nephi; and I make it according to the
knowledge and the understanding which God has given me.
 10 Wherefore, it came to pass that after Amaleki had delivered
up these plates into the hands of king Benjamin, he took them and
put them with the other plates, which contained records which had
been handed down by the kings, from generation to generation
until the days of king Benjamin.
 11 And they were handed down from king Benjamin, from generation
to generation until they have fallen into my hands.  And I,
Mormon, pray to God that they may be preserved from this time
henceforth.  And I know that they will be preserved; for there
are great things written upon them, out of which my people and
their brethren shall be judged at the great and last day,
according to the word of God which is written.
 12 And now, concerning this king Benjamin -- he had somewhat of
contentions among his own people.
 13 And it came to pass also that the armies of the Lamanites
came down out of the land of Nephi, to battle against his people.
But behold, king Benjamin gathered together his armies, and he
did stand against them; and he did fight with the strength of his
own arm, with the sword of Laban.
 14 And in the strength of the Lord they did contend against
their enemies, until they had slain many thousands of the
Lamanites.  And it came to pass that they did contend against the
Lamanites until they had driven them out of all the lands of
their inheritance.
 15 And it came to pass that after there had been false Christs,
and their mouths had been shut, and they punished according to
their crimes;
 16 And after there had been false prophets, and false preachers
and teachers among the people, and all these having been punished
according to their crimes; and after there having been much
contention and many dissensions away unto the Lamanites, behold,
it came to pass that king Benjamin, with the assistance of the
holy prophets who were among his people -- 
 17 For behold, king Benjamin was a holy man, and he did reign
over his people in righteousness; and there were many holy men in
the land, and they did speak the word of God with power and with
authority; and they did use much sharpness because of the
stiffneckedness of the people -- 
 18 Wherefore, with the help of these, king Benjamin, by laboring
with all the might of his body and the faculty of his whole soul,
and also the prophets, did once more establish peace in the land.
Mosiah
THE BOOK OF MOSIAH
